website/docs/users.md, before:

---
id: users
title: Users Information
---

**Users**: Users are the users of the service.

The service supports the following types of users

 - Super Admin: The one that administers the whole system
 - Admin: who can read/modify/delete everything
 - Resource admin: who can read everything; can modify/delete services that he is owner/manager of
 - Observer: who can read everything


## List Users

To view the list of all users, a `superadmin` or `admin` or user must click to the **Users** left sidebar menu option.

| ![users_superadmin_View](assets/users_list_admin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a admin user* |


## View User Details

The user can view all the information from a selected user by clicking on the details view ![view_icon](assets/icons_details.png) icon.

| ![User_ViewDetails](assets/users_details.png) |
|:--------------------:|
| *The details from a user* |


## Edit User

The `superadmin` or `admin` have the permission to edit a user.

To edit an existing user, the user should visit the list of Users.

By clicking on the edit ![edit_icon](assets/icons_edit.png) icon near the selected user the user can edit the details of it.

The fields that the user can change :

| Field Name                  | Description           |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Basic information**       |                       |
| Username (**required**)			|	A username						|
| First Name (**required**)		|	The user's first name	|
| Last Name (**required**)		|	The user'sLast name		|
| Email (**required**)				|	The user's email 			|
| Role (**required**)					|	The role of the user  |


> **Important note** :
> * `superadmin` user, can view/edit and delete a user.
> * `admin` users can only view and edit the existing users.


| ![users_edit_View](assets/users_edit_admin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a admin user* |


## Delete User

Only the `superadmin`, have the permission to delete a user.

| ![users_superadmin_View](assets/users_list_superadmin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a superadmin user* |

To delete an existing user, the `superadmin` user should visit the list of Users. By clicking on the delete ![delete_icon](assets/icons_delete.png) icon near the selected user the user can delete it.

| ![delete_entry](assets/icons_confirm_delete.png) |
|:--------------------------:|
| *The page will show you a confirmation message and if you agree, then this entry will be deleted.* |

Commit message:

docs: Add Provider Admin and remove Admin role

website/docs/users.md, after:

---
id: users
title: Users Information
---

**Users**: Users are the users of the service.

The service supports the following types of users

 - Super Admin: The one that administers the whole system
 - Provider Admin: who administates the users and services belonging to his Provider
 - Resource Admin: who can read everything; can modify/delete services that he is owner/manager of
 - Observer: who can read everything


## List Users

To view the list of all users, a `Superadmin` or `Provider Admin` user must click to the **Users** left sidebar menu option.  
A `Provider Admin` can list only users with role `Observer` or users with role `Resource Admin` who belong to his/her Provider.

| ![users_superadmin_View](assets/users_list_admin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a admin user* |


## View User Details

The user can view all the information from a selected user by clicking on the details view ![view_icon](assets/icons_details.png) icon.

| ![User_ViewDetails](assets/users_details.png) |
|:--------------------:|
| *The details from a user* |


## Edit User

The `Superadmin` has the permission to edit a user.

To edit an existing user, the user should visit the list of Users.

By clicking on the edit ![edit_icon](assets/icons_edit.png) icon near the selected user the user can edit the details of it.

The fields that the user can change :

| Field Name                  | Description           |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------|
| **Basic information**       |                       |
| Username (**required**)			|	A username						|
| First Name (**required**)		|	The user's first name	|
| Last Name (**required**)		|	The user'sLast name		|
| Email (**required**)				|	The user's email 			|
| Role (**required**)					|	The role of the user  |


> **Important note** :
> * `superadmin` user, can view/edit and delete a user.


| ![users_edit_View](assets/users_edit_admin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a admin user* |


## Delete User

Only the `superadmin`, have the permission to delete a user.

| ![users_superadmin_View](assets/users_list_superadmin.png) |
|:--------------------------------------:|
| *The user page from a superadmin user* |

To delete an existing user, the `superadmin` user should visit the list of Users. By clicking on the delete ![delete_icon](assets/icons_delete.png) icon near the selected user the user can delete it.

| ![delete_entry](assets/icons_confirm_delete.png) |
|:--------------------------:|
| *The page will show you a confirmation message and if you agree, then this entry will be deleted.* |
